README.md, before:

# Covey.Town

Covey.Town provides a virtual meeting space where different groups of people can have simultaneous video calls, allowing participants to drift between different conversations, just like in real life.
Covey.Town was built for Northeastern's [Spring 2021 software engineering course](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-CS5500-Spring-2021/), and is designed to be reused across semesters.
You can view our reference deployment of the app at [app.covey.town](https://app.covey.town/), and our project showcase ([Fall 2022](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-Fall-2022/assignments/project-showcase), [Spring 2022](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-Spring-2022/assignments/project-showcase), [Spring 2021](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-CS5500-Spring-2021/project-showcase)) highlight select student projects.

![Covey.Town Architecture](docs/covey-town-architecture.png)

The figure above depicts the high-level architecture of Covey.Town.
The frontend client (in the `frontend` directory of this repository) uses the [PhaserJS Game Library](https://phaser.io) to create a 2D game interface, using tilemaps and sprites.
The frontend implements video chat using the [Twilio Programmable Video](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video) API, and that aspect of the interface relies heavily on [Twilio's React Starter App](https://github.com/twilio/twilio-video-app-react). Twilio's React Starter App is packaged and reused under the Apache License, 2.0.

A backend service (in the `townService` directory) implements the application logic: tracking which "towns" are available to be joined, and the state of each of those towns.

## Running this app locally

Running the application locally entails running both the backend service and a frontend.

### Setting up the backend

To run the backend, you will need a Twilio account. Twilio provides new accounts with $15 of credit, which is more than enough to get started.
To create an account and configure your local environment:

1. Go to [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com/) and create an account. You do not need to provide a credit card to create a trial account.
2. Create an API key and secret (select "API Keys" on the left under "Settings")
3. Create a `.env` file in the `townService` directory, setting the values as follows:

| Config Value            | Description                                    |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`    | Visible on your twilio account dashboard.      |
| `TWILIO_API_KEY_SID`    | The SID of the new API key you created.        |
| `TWILIO_API_KEY_SECRET` | The secret for the API key you created.        |
| `TWILIO_API_AUTH_TOKEN` | Visible on your twilio account dashboard.      |
| `MONGO_DB_URL`          | Mongo db cluster (Provided in canvas comments) |
| `MONGO_DB_PORT`         | Port that mongodb will listen on (4000)        |

After configuring .env to have both `MONGO_DB_URL=mongodb+s...` and `MONGO_DB_PORT=4000` if you are receiving a mongo db error then go to /townService and run `npm install mongoose`

### Starting the backend

Once your backend is configured, you can start it by running `npm start` in the `townService` directory (the first time you run it, you will also need to run `npm install`).
The backend will automatically restart if you change any of the files in the `townService/src` directory.

### Configuring the frontend

Create a `.env` file in the `frontend` directory, with the line: `NEXT_PUBLIC_TOWNS_SERVICE_URL=http://localhost:8081` (if you deploy the towns service to another location, put that location here instead)

For ease of debugging, you might also set the environmental variable `NEXT_PUBLIC_TOWN_DEV_MODE=true`. When set to `true`, the frontend will
automatically connect to the town with the friendly name "DEBUG_TOWN" (creating one if needed), and will *not* try to connect to the Twilio API. This is useful if you want to quickly test changes to the frontend (reloading the page and re-acquiring video devices can be much slower than re-loading without Twilio).

### Running the frontend

In the `frontend` directory, run `npm start` (again, you'll need to run `npm install` the very first time). After several moments (or minutes, depending on the speed of your machine), a browser will open with the frontend running locally.
The frontend will automatically re-compile and reload in your browser if you change any files in the `frontend/src` directory.

Commit message:

Readme update to include node 18.17.1

README.md, after:

# Covey.Town

Covey.Town provides a virtual meeting space where different groups of people can have simultaneous video calls, allowing participants to drift between different conversations, just like in real life.
Covey.Town was built for Northeastern's [Spring 2021 software engineering course](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-CS5500-Spring-2021/), and is designed to be reused across semesters.
You can view our reference deployment of the app at [app.covey.town](https://app.covey.town/), and our project showcase ([Fall 2022](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-Fall-2022/assignments/project-showcase), [Spring 2022](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-Spring-2022/assignments/project-showcase), [Spring 2021](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-CS5500-Spring-2021/project-showcase)) highlight select student projects.

![Covey.Town Architecture](docs/covey-town-architecture.png)

The figure above depicts the high-level architecture of Covey.Town.
The frontend client (in the `frontend` directory of this repository) uses the [PhaserJS Game Library](https://phaser.io) to create a 2D game interface, using tilemaps and sprites.
The frontend implements video chat using the [Twilio Programmable Video](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video) API, and that aspect of the interface relies heavily on [Twilio's React Starter App](https://github.com/twilio/twilio-video-app-react). Twilio's React Starter App is packaged and reused under the Apache License, 2.0.

A backend service (in the `townService` directory) implements the application logic: tracking which "towns" are available to be joined, and the state of each of those towns.

## Running this app locally

Running the application locally entails running both the backend service and a frontend.

### Setting up the backend

To run the backend, you will need a Twilio account. Twilio provides new accounts with $15 of credit, which is more than enough to get started.
To create an account and configure your local environment:

1. Go to [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com/) and create an account. You do not need to provide a credit card to create a trial account.
2. Create an API key and secret (select "API Keys" on the left under "Settings")
3. Create a `.env` file in the `townService` directory, setting the values as follows:

| Config Value            | Description                                    |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`    | Visible on your twilio account dashboard.      |
| `TWILIO_API_KEY_SID`    | The SID of the new API key you created.        |
| `TWILIO_API_KEY_SECRET` | The secret for the API key you created.        |
| `TWILIO_API_AUTH_TOKEN` | Visible on your twilio account dashboard.      |
| `MONGO_DB_URL`          | Mongo db cluster (Provided in canvas comments) |
| `MONGO_DB_PORT`         | Port that mongodb will listen on (4000)        |

After configuring .env to have both `MONGO_DB_URL=mongodb+s...` and `MONGO_DB_PORT=4000` if you are receiving a mongo db error then go to /townService and run `npm install mongoose`

Ensure that your npm is running on version 18.17.1, in terminal run `node -v`. If it is not then install nvm (node version manager) and perform the following commands `nvm install 18.17.1` `nvm use 18.17.1`

### Starting the backend

Once your backend is configured, you can start it by running `npm start` in the `townService` directory (the first time you run it, you will also need to run `npm install`).
The backend will automatically restart if you change any of the files in the `townService/src` directory.

### Configuring the frontend

Create a `.env` file in the `frontend` directory, with the line: `NEXT_PUBLIC_TOWNS_SERVICE_URL=http://localhost:8081` (if you deploy the towns service to another location, put that location here instead)

For ease of debugging, you might also set the environmental variable `NEXT_PUBLIC_TOWN_DEV_MODE=true`. When set to `true`, the frontend will
automatically connect to the town with the friendly name "DEBUG_TOWN" (creating one if needed), and will *not* try to connect to the Twilio API. This is useful if you want to quickly test changes to the frontend (reloading the page and re-acquiring video devices can be much slower than re-loading without Twilio).

### Running the frontend

In the `frontend` directory, run `npm start` (again, you'll need to run `npm install` the very first time). After several moments (or minutes, depending on the speed of your machine), a browser will open with the frontend running locally.
The frontend will automatically re-compile and reload in your browser if you change any files in the `frontend/src` directory.
